---
layout:     post
title:      Linux的etc目录
date:       2020-01-03
author:     白板
catalog: true
tags: 
    - Linux
---

# /etc

This is the nerve center of your system, it contains all system related configuration files in here or in its sub-directories. 
A "configuration file" is defined as a local file used to control the operation of a program; 
it must be static and cannot be an executable binary. 
For this reason, it's a good idea to backup this directory regularly. 
It will definitely save you a lot of re-configuration later if you re-install or lose your current installation. 
Normally, no binaries should be or are located here.

## 

- /etc/X11/

可视化桌面程序的配置文件

- /etc/adduser.conf

'adduser' configuration. 
The adduser command can create new users, groups and add existing users to existing groups. 
Adding users with adduser is much easier than adding them by hand. 
Adduser will choose appropriate UID and GID values, create a home directory, 
copy skeletal user configuration from /etc/skel, 
allow you to set an initial password and the GECOS field. 
Optionally a custom script can be executed after this commands. 
See adduser(8) and adduser.conf(5) for full documentation.

- /etc/adjtime

Has parameters to help adjust the software (kernel) time so that it matches the RTC.

- /etc/aliases

This is the aliases file - it says who gets mail for whom. 
It was originally generated by `eximconfig', part of the exim package distributed with Debian, 
but it may edited by the mail system administrator. 
See exim info section for details of the things that can be configured here. 
An aliases database file (aliases.db) is built from the entries in the aliases files by the newaliases utility.

- /etc/bash.bashrc

System wide functions and aliases' file for interactive bash shells.

/etc/exports

The control list of systems who want to access the system via NFS.
a the list of directories that you would like to share and the permissions allocated on each share.

- /etc/gshadow

Contains encrypted forms of group passwords.

- /etc/gshadow-

Old /etc/gshadow file.

# 参考

[Linux Filesystem Hierarchy](https://www.tldp.org/LDP/Linux-Filesystem-Hierarchy/html/dev.html)